Split out advanced Blazor hosting model content (#16845)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/hosting-model-configuration.md

monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 02/04/2020
no-loc: [Blazor, SignalR]
uid: blazor/hosting-model-configuration
---
# ASP.NET Core Blazor hosting model configuration

By [Daniel Roth](https://github.com/danroth27)

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/blazorwasm-preview-notice.md)]

This article covers hosting model configuration.

<!-- For future use:

## Blazor WebAssembly

-->

## Blazor Server

### Integrate Razor components into Razor Pages and MVC apps

#### Use components in pages and views

An existing Razor Pages or MVC app can integrate Razor components into pages and views:

1. In the app's layout file (*_Layout.cshtml*):

   * Add the following `<base>` tag to the `<head>` element:

     ```html
     <base href="~/" />
     ```

     The `href` value (the *app base path*) in the preceding example assumes that the app resides at the root URL path (`/`). If the app is a sub-application, follow the guidance in the *App base path* section of the <xref:host-and-deploy/blazor/index#app-base-path> article.

     The *_Layout.cshtml* file is located in the *Pages/Shared* folder in a Razor Pages app or *Views/Shared* folder in an MVC app.

>    * Add a `<script>` tag for the *blazor.server.js* script inside of the closing `</body>` tag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Add a `<script>` tag for the *blazor.server.js* script right before of the closing `</body>` tag:
```

     ```html
     <script src="_framework/blazor.server.js"></script>
     ```

     The framework adds the *blazor.server.js* script to the app. There's no need to manually add the script to the app.

1. Add an *_Imports.razor* file to the root folder of the project with the following content (change the last namespace, `MyAppNamespace`, to the namespace of the app):

   ```csharp
   @using System.Net.Http
   @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization
   @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization
   @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Forms
   @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Routing
   @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web
   @using Microsoft.JSInterop
   @using MyAppNamespace
   ```

> 1. In `Startup.ConfigureServices`, add the Blazor Server service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In `Startup.ConfigureServices`, add registration for the Blazor Server service:
```

| `components-reconnect-failed`   | Reconnection failed, probably due to a network failure. To attempt reconnection, call `window.Blazor.reconnect()`. |
| `components-reconnect-rejected` | Reconnection rejected. The server was reached but refused the connection, and the user's state on the server is lost. To reload the app, call `location.reload()`. This connection state may result when:<ul><li>A crash in the server-side circuit occurs.</li><li>The client is disconnected long enough for the server to drop the user's state. Instances of the components that the user is interacting with are disposed.</li><li>The server is restarted, or the app's worker process is recycled.</li></ul> |

### Render mode

Blazor Server apps are set up by default to prerender the UI on the server before the client connection to the server is established. This is set up in the *_Host.cshtml* Razor page:

```cshtml
<body>
    <app>
      <component type="typeof(App)" render-mode="ServerPrerendered" />
    </app>

    <script src="_framework/blazor.server.js"></script>
</body>
```

`RenderMode` configures whether the component:

> * Is prerendered into the page.

Reviewer: Do we have an article which actually details out what `prerendering` is?
As a non-native English speaker, it was a bit unclear to me what `prerendering` is. Although I now know it, I think it's still valuable to have a writeup about this - "what is prerendering actually".
Looking at these two sentences

- Is prerendered into the page.
- Is rendered as static HTML on the page

it's not clear with understanding of what prerendering is, what's the actual difference.

Author: This topic is the first place where it appears, so I'll define it here before merging.
